# jasper-cli

This repo is intended to be used with conjunction with the commandbox-jasper module, a static site generator for ColdFusion.

Getting started is easy:

``` sh
box install commandbox-jasper
```

Once installed you can use the `jasper` command to scaffold your project.

``` sh
mkdir my-new-project
cd my-new-project
box jasper init
box jasper build
box server start
box jasper watch
```

#### box jasper init 
This will download the most current build of jasper-cli 

#### box jasper build
This will write the static html of the site to the `_site` folder

#### box server start
Included in jasper-cli is a commandbox configuration that will serve the static content of the site. You can fine tune your settings by editing `server.json.`

#### box jasper watch
Watches all markdown and coldfusion files in the project directory and will regenerate the static html when it detects a change.

## How it works
Jasper works by compiling HTML files for valid templates in the current directory to the output folder. The project draws heavily from [Eleventy](https://www.11ty.dev), the configuration will be familiar if you have Eleventy experience.

Jasper currently supports *.md and *.cfm files. Both markdown and ColdFusion templates allow the use of YAML metadata (front matter) at the top of the template beginning at the first line.

``` md 
---
title: My awesome post
layout: main
type: post
---
```

ColdFusion files can use a CF comment starting on the first line of the file.

``` md
<!---
title: My awesome post
layout: main
type: post
--->
```

Any values specified in the front matter will placed in main page structure `prc`. 

## Collections

Data generated by jasper can be found in the `collections` variable. All content found by jasper will be present in the `collections.all` array. Each template type will also have its own key in collections, `collections.post` or `collections.page` for example. 